---
layout: post
title: "Scholarship 101"
date: "2019-09-14 10:10:22 +0530"
---

Interested in Studying abroad and the high tuition fees scare you off? Here's a post to help you write the articles for the scholarship which are provided for almost anyone. This article was inspired by [Dr Chandra Balijepalli](https://environment.leeds.ac.uk/transport/staff/917/dr-chandra-balijepalli)'s lecture in my campus.

First of all, there are a lot of scholarships available for you to choose from. So apply for all of them and select only the one which is not mutually exclusive the other ones. This post will not cover the steps to find those scholarships as it will take another blog post to cover.

So the structure of any such application is quite similar. There are major components to these articles-
* Your qualifications
* Your future aspirations
* The importance of this scholarship/ degree in fulfilling that dream.

It can be broadly interpreted as the past, future and immediate present.
So, let's start with the first one.

## Your qualifications

This could have a lot of fields depending on where you are applying. Some key points could be-
* a summary of your academic qualifications (existing and pending)
* professional and other qualifications
* relevant employment, work experience, internships, charity work and volunteering
* prizes and awards
* publications, conference presentations, organizations and participation in events
* other relevant evidence of ability, achievement and potential.

This section should be the one for which you should have a lot of stuff to write about. If not, then you are probably not imagining this right. You are supposed to write about the most you can about yourself. Won a tennis match against a state champion? Write about it. But that won't work, right? You need to link it to the story of you applying to the scholarship. If not, it is wasting space.

Starting sequentially, you need to write about that the examinations that you have passed. That is, Class 12th and 10th examinations. Don't worry much about the percentages. Make sure they are present. Also don't forget to mention the Course that you are undertaking currently but mark it as pending. Forgetting this could be a disaster.  


Next would be the extra courses that you have taken up. Examples could be-
* A Oracle certified course
* A Coursera course
* Any programming language certification
* etc.
These will add more value to your academic knowledge.

Next would be your employment experience. A general rule to follow here is not to just write "4 weeks intern at XYZ". Let the application reviewer know what you did over there, and how it was crucial or helpful to the company.

For Prizes and awards, don't try and go overboard. Try to keep things linked.

Mentioning publications, conferences and events is also going to be tricky like the work experience. Explain how your participation made a difference to the overall event and how you added value. Also, while mentioning references, try to use this [style here](https://libguides.mq.edu.au/referencing/Harvard).

The last section could be anything else that didn't fit in the above sections and you think can give you an edge. Examples could be being the topper in the entire state, etc.

For all the sections, don't forget to include links whenever possible.

## Your future aspirations

This is the place where you use your creativity and predictive skills to show off how you can make a positive difference to world. Use this space wisely and try to repeat points that the applicant would look for in a subtle manner. But be very careful as it could decrease the creativity of this part. General guidelines are off limits as this part is purely subjective so rules don't apply here.

## Importance of the scholarship in fulfilling the aspirations

This is very important as you would be convincing the reader why you should get the scholarship over all others. Communicating with people who have got this scholarship or people who have graduated from there is a must. Moreover, be careful in this area and don't go off topic. This section should have a lot of reading matter but it should all be linked. Again this is up to the creativity of the writer to summon incredible literary devices to convince the reader. So, go nuts!

The final point would be to not copy paste this article for other scholarship too. This would be very negative for your results.


## Conclusion

A lot of opportunities are waiting for you to grab them. So don't disappoint your future self over something that you didn't do.
